gracious father of Heaven and Earth of
mercy and Grace thank you thank you for
a beautiful day thank you for a
privilege of gathering thank you for a
purpose thank you for giving us wisdom
to make right
choices most of all I thank you
personally that my life respect an an
effect of your will in the place where
you've placed me I give you thanks for
that in Jesus name amen amen amen
follow me in the
pledge to the flag of the United States
of America and to the Republic for which
it stands one nation under God
indivisible with liberty and justice for
all please follow me honoring the Texas
flag Texas flag
I Texas State
godible amen
first item of business is to approve the
minutes of the board meeting of December
is there a motion motion to approve is
published second any discussion
Corrections all in favor say I I I thank
you very
much next item opportunity for members
of the public to speak to the board
anyone wishing to do so
seeing none hearing none we move to the
Chancellor's report okay I'd like to go
a little out of order here this morning
we have uh Jenna ly and Jacob Brooks
from the Colleen Dale at Herald here to
make a presentation so I'd like to call
them
forward thank you Dr Carter uh my name
is Jacob Brooks I'm the managing editor
of the clean Daily Herald um my uh my
boss
vice president and general manager uh
Terry Gandy did want to be here
unfortunately had a prior commitment um
and but we're here today to recognize uh
Chancellor Carter and in the Central
Texas College um education board with a
prestigious honor um you guys were voted
as
uh uh one of the best in central uh
Texas um for collegeuniversity
and U let me be the first to
congratulate you on your outstanding
achievement uh for the year uh and um Mr
Gandy also wanted me to say that the uh
best in Central
Texas um logo is one of the most
recognized logos in our in our community
uh you may have seen it a lot of
businesses have this uh this logo
outside their business or organization
it stands for integrity uh excellent
service and Superior Products our
community will know that you stand out
as an elite organization and uh thank
you for uh allowing me this
[Applause]
honor thank you all very much thank you
all
right next I would like to introduce our
newest department chair where there she
is Mrs selinda halbower She was recently
promoted to department chair for Fine
Arts replacing James
Suter uh Miss halbower she earned a b
she has a very lengthy bio because she's
extremely accomplished uh as as uh are
all of our department chairs she earned
a bachelor of music degree in December
1974 her commitment to Excellence in
music education is further underscored
by her National certified teacher of
Music designation in 1976 and the
completion of a master of music degree
from Baylor University in
1977 Mrs halbower began her career at
the University of Mary Harden Baylor in
1975 progressing to become the director
of the Preparatory music program and a
faculty member teaching in piano
pedagogy until
1995 transitioning to Central Texas
College in 1995 she undertook the
revitalization of the music program
ultimately attaining the position of
full-time professor of Music in
1998 her Innovative contributions
include the creation of distance
learning music courses including one of
the earliest online college class Pian
courses in the
country leading to the establishment of
an associate degree in music with
graduates transferring to institutions
nationwide at this time I'd like to give
miss halar an opportunity to come greet
the
board and here a little
bit thank you I just appreciate this
opportunity to serve here and continue
serving at Central Texas College as
department chair for the fine arts
department we're looking forward to
Growing more to some Innovative new
programs coming in the next few years
and to being the best we can be thank
you very much thank you
welcome uh we also have a Title Nine
reporting update at this time and I'll
turn that over to miss Briggs yes ma'am
um as you know Title
Nine see how loud I am today um did you
want me to go down there would that be
better for you uh
can you all hear her on her
microphone okay okay um as you all know
title N is a federal statute but there's
also uh a state statute that runs
parallel to it and the reporting
requirements are actually in the state
statute so it's Texas specific um
historically you've received a report
per semester so one in the fall that
reports for the summer semester one in
the spring that reports for the fall
semester and then sometime in the summer
for the spring semester the statute
requires one report either in the fall
or in the spring so while we've been
doing more than necessary it is um it it
runs a little bit conflict with the
other reports that the title N9
coordinator is required to do which is
quarterly and those don't line up so
quarterly and three times a year have
been a little bit confusing on the staff
side so um to keep to follow the state
law what we're what we will be doing
instead will be reporting once per year
um when you see that report as you know
you don't have details don't have names
it's numbers um that report is also
placed on the website as soon as it's
reported to you and it stays there and
that won't change either the quar
reports that the title n coordinator
makes to the chancellor those will
continue but the Jing of three and four
per year were getting a little a little
confusing and so um we've spoken with Dr
Carter and that's the the change that
we're proposing to make
thank next I asked Dr Garrett to Pro uh
provide us with an enrollment update
we'll con we'll do this regularly at the
start of each semester or term just to
give you all an idea of where we are
thank you Dr Carter um I'm I'm excited
I've been watching the numbers for
spring and they they look really good so
far um as of Monday we've have had a 12%
increase in enrollments for spring of
the Texas reportable students um that
equates to
24,1 31 enrollments
um it's a significant increase um we
have
8478 unduplicated students that being
central campus itself is up 10% and
distance learning is up
133% um we're coming close to matching
the spring of 21 enrollments uh back in
Spring of 21 the enrollments were uh
24254 and as I said we're 24131 right
now
that being said though we haven't
reached census and uh as we get closer
to census students um sometimes drop and
so that number uh may go down a little
bit between now and
census good report
questions was uh that 12% increase was
that year over-year or from uh fall to
Spring uh spring to Spring just the
spring semesters comparing spring
semesters
yes ma'am when the enrollment start
maybe starts to
decline what measures do you have in
place to follow up with the students
that are choosing to withdraw we usually
reach out to them in from student
services to see where you know what we
can do to help them um we have start
dates every month so once census passes
they can enroll in the the next online
or face-to-face session the following
month but we do follow up with students
that we lose and let letting them know
that they have um the support financial
support also that's right okay
definitely
definitely anyone else thank you man'
appreciate it thank
you throughout the uh 89th legislative
session you will see the legislative
update as a placeholder on my report so
that I can share with you in real time
anything that's going on I will tell you
that uh the TAC organization along with
the other Community College presidents
we will be meeting once a month to
discuss uh legislation being filed that
impacts community colleges and we will
then share share with you uh anything of
significance and so there um bills are
still being filed not much discussion
but bills are still being filed and some
of the more significant uh include
Senate
Bill 579 and what that the impact of
that bill and it's relating to an
exemption from certain requirements
regarding diversity equity and inclusion
and so what it's looking to do is uh
exemp privately funded scholarships from
the Dei Provisions outline in Senate
Bill 17 uh which was enacted in during
the 88th legislative session and so for
as you've seen in the news and even here
at Central Texas College there was some
Fallout with that so that bill seeks to
exempt private donations
um also and I identified this as a
legislative priority during our last
meeting for uh for teac um Senate Bill
49 relating to the performance tier
funding under uh public Junior College
State Finance program uh they're looking
to include independent colleges and
universities of Texas basically include
private universities because right now
one of those performance measures are or
outcomes as schools trans students who
are transferring from the community
college to a university but it's a
Public fouryear University um is how it
reads right now but as we know many
students they attend private schools
there was a subsequent Bill filed that
just added on to that to include outof
state universities so we'll be tracking
that pretty closely and there there are
a few others um some language changes
with regard to accrediting agencies
initially um there was some language in
one of the bills that was specific to
Sachs but there was was a change um
there's a proposed change to make it
read any um accrediting body so we'll
keep an eye on those things uh something
that's really interesting uh to note is
that uh House Bill 855
was yeah I don't know if I'm reading
that correctly anyway the the proposed
legislation is a constitutional
amendment excuse me providing for the
creation of funds to support the capital
needs of educational programs offered by
the Texas state technical system
TSTC and so with this the impact here is
that it would establish a $ 1.5 billion
endowment uh for TSTC and Lamar state
colleges uh allowing for an annual
withdrawal from the fund of up to 5%
with new limits on uses so we'll be
watching that one pretty closely also
those are
competitors um also what I'd like to
talk about uh just brief you quickly you
all have seen the um the president's
directive um through the OMB office
regarding uh federal agencies directing
federal agencies to temporarily pause
the dispersement of Grants and loans for
federal financial assistance programs
other than for Social Security Medicare
and other programs providing direct Aid
to individuals well as you can imagine
since that times uh there have been
several questions um I did receive a
call um because I'm being asked
questions but none of us at the
community college or university level
really know the full impact uh what I've
provided you is a copy of that initial
om letter and a subsequent
Q&A that was released and that's
something that I was waiting on prior to
coming to today's meeting so that you
would have it real time so um the Q&A is
is contained in Pages three and four and
one of the questions is is this a freeze
on benefits of Americans like Snap or
student loans and the response is no any
program that provides direct benefits to
Americans is explicitly excluded from
the pause and Exempted from this review
process and then you can go on to read
it so um there are some some exceptions
um I suspect this being somewhat fluid
uh we will learn more as we go but I
wanted to make sure you had that
information today and I will keep you
informed the next item
in my report nursing endowed scholarship
in December we had a donor who wishes to
remain anonymous uh donate $100,000 to
an endowed nursing scholarship for our
students and so we are quite
appreciative of that she's a former
nurse herself uh I had an opportunity to
uh not just give her a thank you card
but to visit with her and express the um
our appreciation collectively on behalf
of the board and the administration and
the students and faculty and staff of
Central Texas College and I spent a
wonderful afternoon with her it was it
was it was really nice and so she
appreciates the work that we're doing
she says we're doing good work um and
she strongly believes in the Health
Sciences she said but in particular the
nursing
program we are thankful and I promised
her a follow-up visit I think I made a
friend uh six th anniversary planning we
have a committee um formed to uh plan
our celebration of the college's 60th
anniversary throughout the year so we're
looking at a series of events some of
which will highlight alumni and donors
and bring folks to our campus so more to
come on that we uh we actually have some
samples of a seal for this year so we'll
get that uh selected and we'll start
using that in some of our Communications
did you mention a date
no well it will be throughout the year
um unless you tell me to spend that kind
of money I had not planned
to Doug Doug has a few dollar Doug has a
few dollars set aside for me but I don't
think it'll
cover and I and we're looking to do
something a little more intimate
throughout the year whereby we can
engage
everyone any questions observations uh
on behalf of the chancellor
early on when you began speaking you
said something about um the scholarships
privately established
scholarships um does that how does that
affect the foundation in their
distribution of those scholarships well
this uh and you helped me out Miss p as
well as Miss bricks we did have a few uh
scholarships that we had to change the
language a little bit some schools had
to eliminate scholarships alt together
we did not have to do that Miss pacon
met with those donors whose scholarships
were impacted by Senate Bill 17 and they
agreed to the language change the
language changes that would bring us
into compliance with Senate Bill 17 um
it wasn't without some warm
conversations uh but but they did and so
we're still able to award those
scholarships uh hopefully
uh during this legislative session we
can get that corrected because I believe
that was really just an unintended
consequence of that bill
okay but in this with the scholarships
that um specifically say a race of
people
or to change it you had to change it yes
because I'm thinking about mind and I
think mind specifically said women and I
need you to look at that take a look at
that okay see I don't I don't believe so
but I will double check it yes I will um
and if there but we have talked to
everyone that had specific groups
wow Miss Pac and Miss Briggs did a
really good job with that that's a lot
thank you yeah and as as the chancellor
had mentioned there were some you know
um discussions that had to be made but
they understood that it wasn't our
decision or wasn't decision you know of
course moving forward but yeah it's
amazing this is just one woman's
opinion it's amazing that someone can
tell me what to do with my money
that that is amazing to me I that
doesn't happen to me very
often the culture we live
in anyone
else next item business is discuss
consider approval the November 24 and
December 24 inter financial statements
and investment reports Mr par I'm going
to skip to December since uh that's the
latest month on your first page your
statement of net position there's not a
lot of discrepancies discrepancies there
mainly when your cash and Investments
and those wash out you'll see that your
unearned revenues have uh risen from uh
have increased million five from the
same time last year that's always a good
sign you're deferring the revenue but
when that goes up it's it's a good sign
on your second page I've left you with
some explanations of those uh changes uh
for taxes I want to wait to like March
you that'll be a better indicator of
where we stand uh November December
January February those are the big
months where we collect so we really
won't know the impact of what we did
back in August until March uh did
everybody understand my line item
regarding tuition and fees if not I can
explain that a little better please do
okay so one difference between this year
and last year last year we were
collecting the full tuition rate of $100
for fast and dual credit this year we're
only able to charge 55 56 that
difference we're not collecting so
that's a difference between this year
and last year and that kind of goes back
to your question a couple of months
ago uh in my analysis it looks like you
know this is my estimate we will need
like 36% of those students from from the
fall to reach 15 semester credit
hours to break even on that lost Revenue
when they hit 15 semester credit hours
we'll get 50
$0000 and we'll need like 36% that's my
estimate to to break even and anything
after that is is money
so so and I'll be able to update you
with that again probably around March
for the spring it takes a while to for
Janelle
to reconcile the numbers confirm them
with the state that has to go through a
process to see who's who's who we can
actually submit so it it takes a little
long so so anyway your bottom line is a
little less than this time last year but
when you figure in the bonus and then
when you figure in the Lost revenue from
the fast versus the tuition you're
you're actually
up and then with your Investments you
had a couple matured at 1.1% and then
that was replaced with one at like 4.2
so that was a good
maturity any questions about the
November report
there a motion to
approve motion been made and seconded
all in favor say I I thank you all right
what did you give us both November and
December yes okay I'm sorry that was my
my mistake thank
you item six discuss consider approval
of board document 440 orderorder of
election miss aens good
afternoon I'm bringing the order of
election uh for upcoming Board of
Trustees uh a general that it's going to
be scheduled for May the 3
2025 we have three positions opening uh
with expiring six-year terms and then
one uh special election for an unexpired
term uh the filing period is started
last Wednesday um and it's open until
February the 14th Friday at
5m uh the order lists different polling
locations
throughout uh Bill County and coral
County
and this year Coro county is not
supporting us because they don't have an
election or the resources or person to
support our election so I've been in
contact with coer Co ISD and they're
allowing us to use their District
training facility for poing
location where is the district polling
location on Sunny um at the Jun Avenue
at the junior 702 Sunny Avenue building
that's little way
uh it's kind of like behind the
stadium you couldn't that the boardroom
I asked and they said no it's not
available any other questions concerning
that notice I thought our other option
we could have it on campus
here that was I spoke with Dr Hawkins
office and that's this report requires
board action is there a
motion so Move Motion seconded second
motion made second any other questions
can we discuss now yeah I can discuss
now okay so so um in Corel County in the
CCSD section of Corel County because
those are the eligible voters for the
for Board of Trustees uh there's about
roughly about 27 28,000 registered
voters in that school district and
uh and I I I heard what you said about
them they could all just come up here uh
that's a lot of people
potentially uh usually you probably see
between 500 and a th000 people come out
on Election time we prefer it be a lot
more yeah and we're the only ones having
an election in con yeah uh but
uh concerning
the junior high area where that one
location is uh that's a traffic problem
and to be able to get in and out of that
area unless you know where you're going
you'll miss it every
time I think I know where Mr Armstrong
was trying to describe where it was at
and stuff but
uh
is yeah it's at the South End uh kind of
runs parallel to Robertson Avenue
there's a little exit from the Junior
High from the stadium it's uh right as
you make that exit I believe it's the
building to the left uh if the kids are
on the move from class times or coming
or going then it'll be very hard to get
through that uh as a A non-student or a
bus person it'd be crazy um if it's a if
we can discuss you know with the school
district may be a better
location that's a problematic location
in my
opinion we can certainly go back to the
school district Miss Havens has had a
number of conversations with the school
district and this was the best they were
able to offer if you want us to go back
and find another location we'd have to
be prepared to pay um but uh it's
whatever you want the U the oh miss
Briggs would like to say something yes
the the other thing is the discussion
about the location is absolutely
relevant I'm not trying to stop that
however Miss Havens has a deadline for
calling the election and that's really
the item that's before you and I don't
the deadline would be before the next
meeting correct correct yeah the 14th of
February is the last date of call so if
if you have a problem with the location
I I I'm not saying that you can't but
what I am saying is I would make a I
would recommend that today you pass the
order and we can always come back and
amend locations later but we have to
call the election before February 14th
we' recommend that over tabling if we
table it you table it to your next
regular meeting after the deadline so
yes my recommendation is that you pass
the order calling the election with that
location that Miss Havens has secured
for now if she's able to change it we
can bring back an amendment to the
locations but we have to call the the
election itself before February 14 right
we have I call the question question
been call for all in favor say I I any
oppos
no okay motion passed thank
you next item is uh discussing consider
approval of Dr Tina a 0 as Vice
Chancellor a Meritus of instruction and
Workforce
initiatives good afternoon uh we uh we
have our Meritus policy that states
individuals are eligible after they've
completed a year a year after they'
retired I can't believe it's already
been a year since Dr has left so I'm
here today to request that designation
for her she was with the institution for
over 25
years is there a motion to approve
motion approve motion been made seconded
discussion questions all in favor say I
I I thank you all very much thank
you item
eight time to consider the uh
self assessment process that Dr Grett
worked so hard on and got us good good
reports from Zach uh so at this moment
at8 the board will go into executive
session uh pursuant to government code
section
551.074 Personnel matters
I
e
e e
real
I doing board is back in order at uh
152 and the
report is that we have reviewed the
board self assessment report uh and and
uh do not see a need for any kind of
action to be presented for
this anything for the good of the board
from board members any kind of
recommendations for future
events yes I had a couple of uh uh
encounters with students and and faculty
and uh I know we spent some money on uh
HVAC improvements and uh door locks
and um I just want maybe we can have a
review of the status how's it going uh
what I had heard was there's some
classrooms that are pretty cold and some
folks that could not necessarily get
into their classrooms so if we could
have a the folks give us a rundown on
the status of that Improvement we
made thank you
sir Charles anything to recommend yes
sure
nothing James I have nothing nothing
thank with that is there a motion to
adjourn Mo all is there a second all in
favor May escort yourself out